---
title: Scene13- The Cliff of a Thousand Kings
---
# 13
Grimnar Coalborn found it distasteful that he had to actually gather the fuel for a fire. However he did know that this humble action gave his mind time to wander and recollect various threads of thoughts. Sometimes these were varied and disconnected but most often, in his experience, they all were pointing to something greater which bound them all together. Perhaps it was all a marvelous coincidence that he was born and raised in such a remote seeming place as the mines which traversed the internal structural of Mount Zabilgila, one of the largest active volcanoes within the Zhulmar Dominion. But this upbringing quickly lead to his indoctrination in the Emberborn religion. A firm believer since young age, the dark dwarf was feverish in his devotion as an adult. This was doubly informed as he had witnessed his parents being consumed by a violent eruption of Zabilgila, and raised by a priest of the order. 

His skin carried the brands and marks of initiation into the deep mysteries of the Emberborn cult, even as far as the deeper realms of the Emberborn Circle, which is where the true believers all huddled and planned their ultimate aims of setting the world on fire. This was not a metaphorical concept to the Circle. It was very literal and very real objectives for in their belief system, the only way to fix the material problems of Orbis was to burn it all to the ground, pave the way for their patrons to return to their rightful position in the pantheon of immortal leaders. 

Deep in his studies within sanctuaries hidden within the recesses of volcanoes of the Emberspire Peaks, He had come across numerous writings within the orders literature that indicated that there was a greater tome of magical abilities and which imparted skills far, far  beyond the possessor's own. Once he had discovered this possible existence of this tome, he was finding references to it everywhere he searched. Following this trail, which seemed to be divinely inspired, he became more and more certain that it really existed and that this ancient book was still hidden within some set of ruins in the the High Nook Valley. Hence, the reason for gathering fire wood. For Grimnar was now setting up a camp at the base of a cliff.

The Infernal Route was shadowed by the cliff as the sun was setting. From his vantage point, he could not see the final rays of light dappling the roofs and stones of the Sharam tomb which was perked at the top of the cliff. But that was not why he was in this spot. His camp gave him a good vantage point to observe traffic on the Infernal Route. His interest was not the caravans of traders who passed by this internationally renowned landmark. It was the stragglers, the small groups of folks who had banded together to pass through the region. Grimnar knew, intuitively, that it was these groups that were the most likely to be investigating the ruins of the area, and since he was out here on his own, it would be beneficial to keep an eye on the actions of others and then if something of interest came up, approach them.

Having made a significant pile of wood for his fire, he laid his hands upon the fuel, uttered a few words of prayer and then withdrew his hands as the fire leapt into life. Satisfied, he set about preparing his dinner and his thoughts turned to the band of four he had recently approached. They were heading to the ruined chambers of the Vampire Knight, Sir Malachar the Dusk-Crowned. He had briefly investigated that site but felt it was more wise to let someone else bring its secrets out than risk the whole structure collapsing upon his head. After all, his patron might be able to use his corpse to continue his mission but he wanted to experience the pleasure of finding this hidden secret book of power. Grimnar was certain that what ever they would find within the stone bastion would help him. Everything he had read in the Order's extensive libraries about Sir Malachar showed that even before he had contracted vampirism, he was dedicated to seeking the very same book.

He thoughts were then interrupted by scurrying in the dark around his camp. The fiends creatures took care to stay outside the ring of light provided by his fire and he was not above feeling some pride that he had backed his camp up all the way to the base of the cliff, so that whoever it was could not surround him. Confidently, he set down the food preparation and glancing at his mace within arms reach, he raised his voice, "Well you might as well show yourselves as you have lost the surprise."

Bemused, Grimnar nodded to himself as several kobolds stepped into the light. They were all thin and appeared to not having eaten in several days, and were quite exhausted. "You will give us food." One of them pointed at him in an effort to be menacing. The chain mail clad dwarf smirked privately to himself before addressing the adversarial gang, "Those who are more respectful to me shall eat." Grimnar rose to his feet, lifted an arm, pointed a finger at the assumed leader, "those who are not, shall burn eternally, Vurash!" The moment he finished the command, the leader burst into flames. Its screams lingered for just a minute before the obvious death occurred. The cleric had returned to his seat. "Now, let me add more meat to the flame and I shall feed you and you shall entertain me with your stories."

---

After hiking their way silently northwest from the ruined stone bastion, as the sun began to slip behind the backdrop of mountains to the west, thy had found a protected little hollow with a large boulder as a wind break. A fire, a meal, and Korralan slipped off to find some quiet place where he could not hear the bard's incessant chanting. He sat alone with his thought for a brief moment, before curling up in a nearby concave beneath another large rock. his cloak wrapped about himself, his mind began to pick at pieces. 

Memories of stories told about his father's uncle. An extremely talent smith and engineer who while he had been the Forge Master of Housse Bravone walked away from it all. The parallels seemed really unnerving, and perhaps why his father was so cold and distant when he had requested the Ember Trial. Not knowing what had become of his great-uncle was a bit of a worrying thread that dangled in Korralan's mind and prohibiting himself from fully making a direct linkage between himself and his elder relation.

"Also he was actually head of the house, whereas I have three older brothers who will have that title passed unto them before it gets to me." sleepily his voice arguing out loud. Even as he was lodging this logic, his eyes faded and when he opened them a moment later, the sun was rising in the east. The Dragon's Breathe was encircling the top of the tall glacier to the south of them, and the dwarf realized that he had actually gotten a good long rest.

The other three had broken fast and packed up before he joined them. The bard was still noodling on his lute but the chanting had stopped, so it seemed like he had become more himself after all that. Vanya just nodded at him and then headed off across the tundra. Lyra seemed to be lost in her own thoughts as she fell in line behind the human woman. Korralan let the bard proceed ahead of him, as he was still carrying the copper ingot and also did not fully trust that the elf was prepared to provide the needed protect from anything or anyone sneaking up behind them. 

As they walked, his thoughts began to drift. The coalesced about a recollection of the moment his father stood before him in the rounded chambers where the obsidian anvil stood like an altar. A glistening black focal point where they had bound him with a chain. His father had stood behind it and amongst many of the things he had to say that day, the one that stood out the brightest in Korralan's mind was when High Forgemaster Durnek Bravone uttered low enough only the two of them could hear him, "No Bravone has ever left the mines. Why Korralan? Why?"

His response now echoed in his mind,"Because there is no future here. I have obeyed every order, accepted every tradition. I’ve bent beneath decrees and borne expectations since birth. But I have forged nothing of my own. I refuse to live a life shaped only by obedience—by another's will."

 His father's silence and quiet thoughtfulness had made that moment seem heavier, deeper, and hotter than freshly poured iron in a mold. Korralan had not been questioning House of Bravone, nor had he been questioning his father, in fact, all the questions which had driven him to that point where about himself. None of the answers he had come up with, until requesting, demanding the Ember Trial, had had any satisfaction. They all felt inauthentic. 

"What are those lights?" Lyra pointed ahead to the top of a ridge which had risen above the valley floor. Its eastern face was a cliff that ran north and south. Korralan could see that they had nearly reached the Infernal Route and it raced along the foot of the cliff. He thoughts put on hold for the moment, "Does that mean you want to go an investigate?"

Lyra turned to look back at him, and then smiled, "Actually, that sounds like a grand idea."

From ahead of the other, Vanya called out, "It's the Cliff of a Thousand Kings. Sharam Tomb is up there, and I have heard so many stories about that place."

"I guess we are off to rummage through another set of ruins." Aethel moaned. "Yippee." His tone was half-hearted at best, perhaps he was feeling quit dismal. 

Without changing pace or even seemingly direction, within an hour thy had reached a trail that was south of where the lights had been seen atop the cliff. "Does anyone want to pause for a rest before we "head up?" Vanya asked.

"Oh no, let's just charge right up into whatever dangerous situation awaits us" Aethel's sarcasm was dripping wet, a fresh painted sign that his was more than uncomfortable with the shape of their journey. However, Vanya appeared to have not understood his contrary tone and listened only the the meaning of the words, and began to hike up the sloping trail. Lyra followed close behind, placing her quarterstaff carefully so that she could use it for additional support.

"Oh hooray." the bard was not nearly as quick to begin the climb but his steps were sure and striding nonetheless. Leaving only Korralan to begin the ascent. The dwarf shifted the load of the copper ingot so that it was more balanced and then carefully began selecting footsteps to follow the party.

They focused intensely on every step for an hour as they rose up the steeply sloping path. It was no wider than Lyra's quarterstaff was long, and in some places it had been even more narrow than the shaft of Korralan's greataxe. The further along they had progressed the further above the valley floor they rose, a dangerous precipice upon which a wrongly placed foot or slipped step would certainly have sent them to their deaths. They had reached a shelf, of sorts, where the path cutback upon itself before rising further. They had all unanimously elected to take a short rest to eat and drink before pressing on. While they were seated as far away from the edge as their bodies could get,  Vanya pointed to a place north and east.

"See the glacier there?" Her eyes drifted to Korralan to make it clear she was speaking to him directly. "See the dark black blur on top? There is your roadmarker."

Peering over the edge, out into the space before him, gave his stomach a turn. He was momentarily frightened that he was going to lose his rations, but he shifted his eyes up towards where Vanya had indicated. It took a brief time for them to focus on what she had described. "Aye! There it is. I can see it now."

"Are all the monuments that tall?" Aethel asked, "is there some reason that one got to be so massive?"

Vanya reached towards her satchel but when her hand rested on the cover, seemed to decide that she did not need any notes to answer. "Some are nearly as large, but I suspect that because to the way the mountains are shaped around here, the land just provided more material it than others. I have sen monuments near swamping land, that are less than half as high." However, seemingly unsatisfied with that answer, she actually open up her satchel and retrieved her book. Flipping pages as she spoke. "The glacier was probably not around when it was erected, and as you can see the shape of the land around it, there is a rise and fall, so the roadmarker is at some of the last of the high ground for a hundred leagues."

"Into the steppes?" Lyra asked, "What are the Etrivalians like?"

"Quite a bit like you or me." Vanya stopped flipping page, folded the book back and slide it once again to  its place. "They live on their mounts. They move around very frequently, although there are towns and villages which manage to stay in one place, some of their larger groups travel almost like a mobile city."

"Noble Nomads." Aethel's mood had not lifted even as they had stopped climbing for now. "I guess they don't have warm taverns with ale and beds?"

Vanya could not help laughing, "Of course they do, and they will respect your art very much, you could even develop a bit of notoriety with that lute of yours. Although they might not appreciate your humor quite as much." The elf sat sulking for a moment, while Vanya continued, "Shall we keep going? I'd like to find a wider place before nightfall."
